feat: Add Practice Article on Software Development Kit (SDK) (#309)
DXHeroes/knowledge-base-content: practices/software_development_kit.md

---
slug: software-development-kit
stages:
  - development
short_description: A SDK is a set of toolchains that allow a developer to write applications for a given platform or allow them to use a specific framework to do so.
tags:
  - sdk
  - software development
  - software engineering
  - development
  - developer experience
keywords:
  - product sprint
  - software development
  - software engineering
  - product development
  - debugging
  - documentation
  - libraries
  - apis
  - sdk
---

# Software Development Kit (SDK)

**TL;DR**

It is a set of toolchains that allow a developer to write applications for a given platform or allow them to use a specific framework to do so. You have what you need to get the job done, and what's included in your kit toolbox, varies from platform to platform.

## What is an SDK

> A Software Development Kit (SDK) is the toolbox of the software development world. But instead of tools like screwdrivers and pliers, SDKs contain libraries and Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) that make it easier to create applications for specific software and/or hardware.

Reviewer: Similar to _A Software Development Kit (SDK) is the toolbox of the software development world. But instead of tools like screwdrivers and pliers, SDKs contain libraries and APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) that make it easier to create applications for specific software and hardware._ from https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/whats-an-sdk-software-development-kits-explained-in-plain-english/

Author: Trying to rewrite this part as soon as able :)

It can also be thought of as a wrapper library developed by a service provider which provides an abstraction around the services or capabilites that the platform has or supports.

![SDK](/files/software_development_kit.png)
[CleverTap: What is an SDK? Everything You Need to Know](https://clevertap.com/blog/what-is-an-sdk/)

> 

Reviewer: Please, mention the difference between API and SDK.

### Why You Might Want an SDK

> 

Reviewer: Please, this part should explain why someone should have an SDK. What are the benefits of it? You are explaining what SDK is but I don't see why I should ask my developers to spend their time on creating one.

> An SDK can include a range of things, including libraries, documentation, code samples, processes, and guides that developers can use and integrate into their applicatios. SDKs are designed to be used for specific platforms or programming languages.

Reviewer: I can find similar text on https://clevertap.com/blog/what-is-an-sdk/ (which is not in the sources). Please, rewrite this in your own words. 

_SDK tools will include a range of things, including libraries, documentation, code samples, processes, and guides that developers can use and integrate into their own apps. SDKs are designed to be used for specific platforms or programming languages._

> All of this is done through the libraries included in each SDK. A library is essentially a piece of software that allows your application to communicate with the specific platform it is running on. Tools for debugging, compilation and relevant documentation are often included in SDKs, which makes it easy for developers to fix or extend their application.

Reviewer: I have found similar text on https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/whats-an-sdk-software-development-kits-explained-in-plain-english/ (not in sources)

_All of this is done through the libraries included in each SDK. A library is essentially a piece of software that allows your application to communicate with the specific platform its running on._

_Tools for debugging and creating visual elements are often included in SDKs, making it easy for developers to fix their applications_

> SDKs provide developers with an array of tools needed to provide users of their application a standardized interface. Developers do not need to reinvent the wheel when it comes to standard application features. SDKs have a set of robust functionality - error handling, consistent performance, code reuse - that takes a lot of the complexity away for the application software developers.

Reviewer: I have found similar text in the skyhook article: _SDKs provide developers with an array of tools needed to provide end-users of an app a unique and standardized interface. Developers also don’t need to reinvent the wheel when in comes to standard app features, such as location, data storage, geofencing, user authorization, etc. SDKs have a set of robust functionality -- error handling, consistent performance, code reuse -- that takes a lot of the complexity away for software developers._

> 

Reviewer: There is a missing part of "how to implement SDKs".

Reviewer: This should explain how to "create a good" SDK (What is necessary for Good SDK?)

There are notable differences between an API and an SDK. An API is an interface to a service that you might provide to the developers who want to build applications revolving around the service. They are designed to be used to communicate between applications. You ideally provide an API for each service that should be accessible and the relevant documentation.

The SDK serves as a structured package which provides an abstraction for the APIs to ensure consistent usage on a particular platform and allow the developer to easily create applications which use the APIs. An API does not include an SDK, however, an SDK might contain various APIs.

### Why You Might Want an SDK

A Software Development Kit may be delivered with relevant software libraries, technical documentation, code-snippets, specialized application software, such as compilers, interpretors, debuggers, and tools that developers can use to build applications.

An SDK is designed to be used to create or extend their applications built on a specific platform or programming language. Developers might have to develop their logic and use their tools to interface with services.

> Therefore, it is useful to develop an SDK when you want to package standardized interfacing to multiple services to the developers to reuse without needing them to improvise to access the services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, you should consider developing an SDK when you want to create a standardized way to interact with your services that a developer can pick up and reuse.
```
